## Personal Website Update \#2
###### February 17, 2016

I've made some changes to my markdown parser module. As I mentioned, it uses [marked](https://github.com/chjj/marked) to parse the actual markdown into plain HTML tags. I have it wrapped in a module that uses `fs` to grab the blog markdown file from a blog directory which will then pass it to `marked`. The module returns a promise.

    Parser.parseFile(fileName)
    .then(
        function(result) {
            //Result contains parsed markdown as HTML
        },
        function(error) {
            //Handle Error
        }
    );

I've added a new method to the parser called.. `parseFiles`. It takes in an array of file paths, parses each, then returns a promise with a result object consisting of an array of HTML strings. Each string maps index-for-index to the input of the original file paths.

It's pretty simple, but I think I'll clean it up and make it available on npm as a module. I want to look deeper into the error handling both from marked and in general and (as of now) it uses nested promises that I think I may be able to get rid of. We shall see.

Anyways, without that latest addition, you wouldn't be reading this second blog post :)

I've also added a widescreen breakpoint that throws the header on the side. I think it looks nice and it takes advantage of the otherwise wasted real-estate. I will start looking for photos to place in the header. I will likely look towards my [flickr](https://www.flickr.com/photos/ceribria/) account and possibly load one at random on every page load.

And once again, feel free to take a peek at the code on [Github](https://github.com/chrisleeshanok/chrisls.com)
