## Neat Javascript Micro Problems
###### March 01, 2016

I was recently asked an edge case javascript problem. It went something like this:

    > ['10', '10', '10'].map(parseInt)
    [10, NaN, 2]

Interesting, eh? (Sorry, please excuse my Canadian-ness. Thank you).

Take a moment to think about it. Resist the urge to peek at MDN.

I got close, as I knew the callback for `map` can accept up to three parameters. I had to slap myself for not remembering `parseInt` beyond it's first argument. I don't use it very often day-to-day. This is one of those problems that make you say WTF at first, but makes sense once you dive deeper.

Well anyway's here's the spec for the map function. [map](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/map)

    arr.map(callback[, thisArg])

>   Parameters

> `callback`
>>   Function that produces an element of the new Array, taking three arguments:

>>  `currentValue`
>>  The current element being processed in the array.

>>  `index`
>>  The index of the current element being processed in the array.

>>  `array`
>>  The array map was called upon.

>  `thisArg`
>> Optional. Value to use as this when executing callback. Default value is the Window object


Alright, so what's happening? The callback function is invoked on each index. That would be `parseInt` in this case. The return array is a transformed array whose indexes map to the original, but a value of the output of the callback function. So you would be expecting something like this at first:

    > [parseInt('10'), parseInt('10'), parseInt('10')]
    [10, 10, 10]

Not so! Remember the callback function has three arguments? The `currentValue`, the `index` of the current iteration, and the original `array`. So you're looking at something like this in actuality:

    [parseInt('10', 0, array), parseInt('10', 1, array), parseInt('10', 2, array)]

So we're passing in three arguments to `parseInt`! So this was where I was stuck. I did not know what the second parameter was for off the top of my head. Luckily, we can look at [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/parseInt) now:

    parseInt(string, radix);

>  `string`
>>The value to parse. If string is not a string, then it is converted to a string (using the ToString abstract operation). Leading whitespace in the string is ignored.

> `radix`
>>An integer between 2 and 36 that represents the radix (the base in mathematical numeral systems) of the above mentioned string.

So the second parameter specifies the base of the integer. Let's go take a look at our mapped out problem again.

    [parseInt('10', 0, array), parseInt('10', 1, array), parseInt('10', 2, array)]

So for `index 0`, we have `parseInt('10', '0', array)`. Since `parseInt` expects two arguments, we can ignore the array parameter as it will not have any effect on the outcome.

    [parseInt('10', 0), ...]

So we're trying to parse `'10'` with a radix of... 0? So the output should be zero `(0^10)`, right?. Why are we seeing `10?`. Well remember the concepts of Truthy and Falsy in Javascript? `0` is falsy. So internally, when checking for a radix parameter this would be the same as essentially not passing in the radix argument. And since the default radix for `parseInt('10')` is 10, the output is as you expect -- 10. *Careful: The default will change depending on what number you're trying to parse.*

    [..., parseInt('10', 1), ...]

Here, `parseInt` is expecting a radix value between 2 to 36. It is unable to parse '10' with a radix of 1 so it returns `NaN`.

    [..., parseInt('10', 2)]

This one should be fairly obvious now. We're parsing `'10'` with a radix of 2. In converting from base 2 to base 10, `10` is `2`, hence our output. If we were parsing `1000` we would get `8`. And of course, if we were parsing any number not beginning with 0 or 1 here, we would get `NaN`.

    > ['10', '10', '10'].map(parseInt)
    [10, NaN, 2]

Not so funny looking now, isn't it? People who use `parseInt` frequently and properly are probably rolling their eyes right now. And (for myself at least), I would always think twice about writing code like that without really understanding what's happening. But here's what to get out of this:
- Read the specs for functions you use frequently or are introduced to in passing. There may be some quirks you aren't aware about that will cause you to have abnormal output. I see `map` used in React tutorials all the time with one parametered callbacks. You should really get to know what it does. Dive deeper!
- Always specify a radix when using `parseInt`. There quite a few cases where your output won't align with what you're expecting.

Oh, and how would you get the expected output from the problem?

    ['10', '10', '10'].map((value) => { return parseInt(value, 10)})
